(energetic music)
Alright, and the last video we talked
about just a simple flex property in which that
when you have extra space or when things get cut down,
you don't have enough space, how will things
distribute the extra space or chop themselves down
when you have not enough space
and we were actually going ahead
and just using the flex property
and setting it to things like one and two
and what that essentially means and we should be using this
but by one we actually have three properties
that are packed into this one property.
There is something called flex-grow.
There's another one called flex-shrink
and we have a third one called flex-basis.
Now what flex-grow is, is essentially
when we have extra space, how should we divide it
amongst everybody on the same line.
So what I'm gonna do here is if I take
that flex off, I go into a box
and I just say flex-grow one and refresh.
That's exactly what we're doing before.
And we are also doing something called flex-shrink one.
So again, if you set flex to be one,
what it does is it's a shorthand
for setting flex-grow to one and flex-shrink to one.
So flex-grow is pretty easy to understand.
I think that when you have extra space,
how much extra should it take?
But before we get into these too much,
we actually need to look at the third one
which is called flex-basis.
And essentially what flex-basis is,
in an ideal world, before we start growing and shrinking
before we start taking the extra space and allotting it
between all of our flex items, how big should it be?
How wide should the actual element be?
Or how high should the element be
if we are switching our access again,
our main access is left to right,
cross access is top to bottom.
So let's actually I've just made this super simple example
cause this is a little bit hard to follow along with.
If you open up the flex-grow in trunk one
and I'm just gonna go ahead and select box one
and I wanna say flex-basis
let's do 400 pX
and same for box two let's do that.
So let's just go ahead and say here
in an ideal world each of these boxes
would be 400 pixels wide assuming that the rapper
or the container is going to be 800.
So and I refresh there, and I inspect these elements here,
you'll see that this one
is through 400 pixels wide and that one is 400 pixels wide.
So take note that that's 380, how come?
because it got 10 padding and 10 on the other side.`
So in an ideal world that is 400 by 400,
and that's great except the question is,
what happens when we have extra room
which is where our flex-grow comes in.
In this case, we do have extra room.
Where should that extra room go?
Should one or two, how should they divvy
it up between the two of them?
So on box one, we can go ahead and say
flex-grow and let's just say one and see what that does.
So what do you think should happen
if you've set flux-grow on this guy
to one and then nothing on this one?
Refresh, well that's interesting.
So what happened there is that
we didn't apply anything on box two for flex-grow.
And if we inspect it, see, look, it's still 400 pixels wide
and then box one just ate up the rest of it.
So what that tells us is the default flex-grow
for anything is zero essentially it means
when there is extra room don't do anything
which is essentially the default.
When if we don't put flux-grow on anything,
when there is extra room don't do anything
just stay at your ideal space.
However, we're not really that interested in that
because we wanna go ahead and put a grow on it.
I'll just put a one on each of them
and that's not going to do much
because it's getting evenly distributed.
However, now if I take this box one and make it
let's just do two I'm gonna put my cursor
where the middle is, I refresh,
you see that it moved to the right just a little bit more
because now box one is getting twice as much
of the extra room as box two.
Now where this is really noticeable
as if you make flux-grow like something like 10,
now one is getting 10 times
the amount of extra space that two is.
So that's great and if I open up my dev tools here,
and I go ahead and resize my browser,
you'll see in the top right hand corner,
it's telling us exactly how wide my browser is.
So right now it's 1400 each pixels wide.
So that's great because we've got extra room,
extra room 400 plus 400 is 800.
And we've got all kinds of extra space there.
But what happens if I then bring
my browser down to let's go to 800 pixels
okay, look us in spectrum real quick.
Okay, they're both 400.
So this is where flex-basis kicks in.
They're both, ideally 400 pixels.
But now my question is, what happens
when we go under 400 pixels
You'll notice that in regular flows
it just break on to the next line,
but in this case, they sort of start just
chopping themselves down a little bit,
because we don't have any sort of wrapping
turned on with flex box just yet.
So that's where flex-shrink comes in.
So if flex-grow is how do we deal
with the extra space available to us,
flex-shrink is how do we sort of slim ourselves down
when there really isn't enough space for all of us.
So again, ideally, it'd be 400,
but we really just don't have the pixels to do that.
So how should we kind of slim ourselves down?
So, I gonna go ahead and
the default flex_shrink is one.
So you'll notice that if I bring it really skinny here,
you'll notice that that one is 279 and that one also 279.
So the default for flexbox is that
when there's not enough room just evenly divided
amongst yourselves and everyone's happy
however, we might not want that.
So what we can go ahead and say is flex-shrink,
and I'm gonna put an outrageous number right on here
and say, 10 again, and refresh.
So let's go back down to our 800, okay here.
And then here we go watch what starts to happen.
Oh, interesting.
So we put a flex-shrink
on one of 10
and two, the second box does not,
it takes up way more room than that.
So what that tells us about flex-shrink
is it's a number as to how much of myself
should I give up in proportion to the other one.
So you'll notice that box two doesn't have flex-shrink,
but again, the default is one.
So when we have not enough room,
I'm going to shrink myself 10 times more than box two.
Now that's a bell radius, you might do something like five,
I'm gonna shrink myself five times
less or more than a box two refresh,
you'll see there so two gets it.
And that's really handy and responsive design.
If you've got a content in a sidebar,
where if you've got the space,
you can do really nice design.
When you're in your kind of ideal scenario,
you can split it up evenly.
And then once you get really small,
you can sort of say, all right,
this is how you should handle it.
And we're not dealing with floats
we're not dealing with any sort of adding up ,
you know in floats, you need to make sure
that you always hit 100%.
in this case I'm going ahead and I'm using pixels,
you can use arms or remes or really anything you want.
So that's flex-basis, grow and shrink.
Now you probably will never go ahead and write directors.
Because we want to use the property just simply flex.
So, say flex, we first say the grow,
then we say the shrink and then we say the basis
and that's in a nice single line.
And then we'll go ahead and do this one as well.
Flex is going to be 114 hundred PX
and we do it all in one go.
So even if you're not going to be setting the basis
like if you just do something like that,
or even like we did before
you decided to set it to simply one.
It's recommended that you set it in the shorthand
because the browser is going to kind of
look at your layout and intelligently figure out
how big these two other ones should be.
Which is kind of cool.
You give up a little bit of control
that you might be used to setting hard widths
and floats with your regular CSS.
But that's the beauty of flexbox.
(energetic music)